Welcome back.
Sometimes you try to calculate
the probability of a word happening after
a word.
To do that you might want to count the
number of times those two words showed up.
One after another, divided by the number
of times the first word appeared.
Now what if the two words never showed up
next to each other in the training corpus.
You get a probability of zero, and
the probability of an entire
sequence might go to zero.
Now how can we fix this problem?
Let's take a look,
let's now dive into Laplacian smoothing,
a technique you can use to avoid
your probabilities being zero.
The expression used to calculate
the conditional probability
of a word given the class is
the frequency of the word in the corpus.
Shown here as freq of word I comma
class divided by the number of words
in the corpus or end class.
Smoothing the probability
function means that you will
use a slightly different
formula from the original.
Know that I've added
a one in the numerator.
This little transformation avoids
the probability being zero.
However, it as a new term to
all the frequencies that is not
correctly normalized by N class.
To account for this, you will add
a new term in the denominator V class.
That is the number of unique words
in your vocabulary to account for
that extra term added in the numerator.
So now all the probabilities in
each column will sum to one.
This process is called
Laplacian smoothing.
Going back to this example,
let's use the formula on it.
The first thing you need to calculate
is the number of unique words in your
vocabulary.
In this example you have
eight unique words.
So now let's calculate the probability for
each word.
And the positive class for
the word I the positive class you get
three plus one divided by 13
plus eight which is 0.19.
For the negative class you have three
plus one divided by 12 plus eight,
which is 0.2 and then so
on for the rest of the table.
The number is shown
here have been rounded.
But using this method to sum of
probabilities in your table will still be,
one knows that the word because no
longer has a probability of zero.
Great, that's Laplacian smoothing.
Now you know why you have to
use the Laplacian smoothing.
So your probabilities
don't end up being zero.
That's very cool, you learned
about Laplacian smoothing and
now understand why it is
important to use smoothing.
In the next video,
you will learn about the log likelihood